#Revocation on a blockchain
##by Marta Piekarska

“Revocation refers to the cancelling or annulment of something by some authority. When revocation happens, a privilege, title, or status is removed from someone.”

Blockchain - an immutable, distributed, permissionless, open-source ledger. A blockchain consists of blocks of data. Each block includes the hash of the prior block in the blockchain, linking the two. The linked blocks form a chain. It is immutable. It is a persistent.

Blockchain - the buzzword, the magic solution to every problem we have. Finances? Blockchain. Medical Data? Blockchain. Databases? Blockchain. Internet of Things? Blockchain. Identity? Blockchain. Blockchain. Blockchain everything. 

It has been said enough times already, but let us repeat: there are also bad use cases for this technology. Situations where what we have until now is enough. More importantly, the advantages of using blockchain: the fact that it is immutable and persistent come with a cost. It means that once something is “on a blockchain”, it cannot go “off the blockchain”. Any change in history, in previous blocks, is immediately propagated to the top of the stack and flags are raised. History cannot be rewritten on principle. 

This may be one of the biggest innovations: until blockchain was introduced the Internet, the computers, were at most as good as our reality: anyone could claim anything they wanted about the past events. We had to rely on trust. Worse than in the real world, in the virtual reality we had to put trust in parties we did not know, had no ability establish personal relationship with. With blockchain the concept of trust is removed from the equation. There is no need for Alice to know Bob, to trust him, or to rely on Cathy to guarantee for Bob. The interactions between parties are no longer subject to any social agreements. As long as the cryptography and mathematical equations work, we the events can always be verified to have happened. Sounds amazing. It is a real utopia, world where entities can interact with each other with no suspicions of fraud. What can possibly be the disadvantage of it?

Several leaders in the community have brought up the topic of revocation. There are situations, in their opinion, where it is important to be able to remove or change the data on a blockchain. Putting aside if it is technically possible - how do you revoke anonymous information? How do you achieve a consensus over new history? - it is worth to spend time discussing if at all we should investigate such change in the protocol. 

Lets break the problem into several pieces. First the activity: revocation can be understood as modification or as deletion of data. Second is the point in time: does one want to revoke the data from a blockchain from “this point on” or erase the history; revoke the existence of the information in a blockchain. Third is the power dynamic: who has the privilege to do it - the owner of the data, a third party or an empowered third party, meaning an authority. From these three aspects several use cases arise. To simplify, lets discuss the first vector before further analysis. 

Should revocation ever allow for removing data from a blockchain? The answer is no. It stands in contradiction to the ground rules of the Blockchain. It removes the biggest innovation from blockchain. If there is no way to guarantee that an action once included in the blocks will persist, the technology is no longer trust-less. It is no different from a decentralized database. Entities need to be held accountable for what they put on it, and how they manage their data. When it comes to modification, that becomes more vague. There are cases when modification of data should be possible - we are all allowed to change our opinions, revisit decisions, some information simply changes with time: our age, address, capacity of the hard drive in a fridge. Thus, from this point on I will only talk about revocation as modification.

Second aspect is when, if ever, should it be possible to modify the data put on a blockchain. Again, if we would allow modification of data in the past, it is equal to deletion of data: it no longer is what it was and we have no way of retrieving what the original data was. If I cannot retrieve original data, how can I know that it was not modified to benefit the entity changing it? One could imagine a scheme where the modified data carries a watermark that signals the fact it has been altered. Yet again, if we allow for changes at the very origin - such watermark would only bring more doubts and questions. What was it about the original that needed to be “improved”? So out of the two - if anything the data can only be modified from a given point in time, so that there is a comparison between the original and new version. Ideally, a modify flag should be raised so that any verifier is aware that alterations have been made. 

Finally: who has the right to modify information? The owner, a third party, an authority? It seems agreeable, that given the owner of the data should be able to modify it. However, the question remains who owns the data. I will argue that all entities involved in the creation of the data should be considered as owners of it. Which means that any modification of data should go through a process of a multisig where all of them have to agree on the modifications made. And this is it. Nobody else ever should be able to modify or alter the information on a blockchain. If an authority or a third party have not been involved in creation of the data (eg. issuing the ID to be put on the blockchain), then they should not be allowed to revoke it. 

Interestingly, most of the technology for modification of existing data on a blockchain from a given point in time already exists. One can create a new transaction that builds on top of the old one and modifies the content of it. The only addition maybe worth doing, if we consider claims and reputation rather than just liquid assets like digital currency is adding a modify flag to the transaction, that would inform everyone that the input has been modified compared to its original. If we try to change the blockchain to allow anything else beyond this, the question is - why are we trying to do it? Is there a good reason to break the biggest and most important innovation of the past decade in order to fit it into more use cases? Isn’t this the best sign that a blockchain is not a good fit for a given problem? In medicine we have many drugs for many diseases. Every time you go to a doctor they choose the one that fits best. Blockchain will not cure all of our illnesses. 
